[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: We often
hear the word alchemy bandied
about, but with little
substance as to its definition.
Today, we'll be speaking
with Dr. Theresa Bullard,
an interdisciplinary
scientist who
is steeped in the wisdom
of the Universal Kabbalah.
She will break down the
process of human evolution
for us using the
metaphor of alchemy,
which I find to be
personally very useful.
Finally, somebody is actually
using the word alchemy.
First of all, OK,
your background
is in the hard
sciences, in physics,
in neutrino physics and all
the way into nanotechnology.
So give us an idea of who
you are so everybody knows
what they're getting into here.
>>THERESA BULLARD: Sure,
so I have, as you say,
I have a background in physics.
And I was very
focused for a while.
And just career and physics,
and following that mainstream
track.
And then as I got into
my graduate studies,
I just realized
that it wasn't all
that it was cracked up to be.
It wasn't at all what I
was hoping it would be.
>>REGINA: What were
you hoping to get out
of it that wasn't there?
Because a lot of people
listening to this, or even
there are kids in college
that are struggling with this.
You, what's your part of that?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so
when I went in to--
now I always had sort
of a spiritual side,
and I was always much
more well-rounded
in terms of my interests.
And when I got into
physics in graduate school,
I was hoping that we'd be
able to get into like some
of the philosophy, or what
does this quantum physics
stuff mean?
And you know like
really talk about
how it really applies
to us and what
the bigger implications are.
But they didn't want to
talk about that at all.
They'd really discouraged it.
And it was like pass your
test, do your research,
do your homework, and
don't ask questions.
And so after about
a year of this,
I was in 80 hours of left
brain physics per week.
And whereas prior, I
had just diversity.
And so after about a year,
I found myself really
out of balance and not happy.
And I just decided
like, OK, I'm not
sure this is even what I
thought it was going to be,
or what I was hoping it would
be, why I'm even doing it.
I knew I wanted to get my
PhD, but I didn't really
know yet what I was going to
do specifically with that,
because I knew I didn't really
want to go into academia.
And so I just thought is
this worth the sacrificing
my well-being and my happiness?
And I was starting to get
depressed and so forth.
And I just decided I need
to find what's ever going
to bring that balance back.
And so I started searching.
And I brought all these
different aspects of life
back in that normal
society says this
is what you need to do to
live a well-rounded life.
Like social time, and creative
hobbies, and athletics,
and so forth.
And it all helped, but
about a year later I
was still feeling like
there's still something
really important missing.
And one day I was at the gym,
and I just thinking about,
well, what's still missing?
And this light bulb, this
little voice came in and just
said, well, one thing you
still haven't brought back
in from what you had before.
And it was spirituality.
And so at that
point, I just like
I was kind of surprised, because
I was very well indoctrinated
into the scientific way
of thinking at that point.
And it was never
that important to me.
It was just sort of there.
I was exposed, but it was just
my own personal background
philosophy.
And yet here it was the one
thing I hadn't brought back in.
So I decided, OK, I'm
going to pursue it.
And then as I got
into, you know,
anything that was going
to work for me spiritually
had to agree with what
I knew scientifically.
They couldn't just be in direct
opposition to each other.
And so I started studying all
this science and spirituality,
science and consciousness,
and it woke me up.
And I got really excited.
>>REGINA: Well, you were also
steeped in it as a child.
>>BULLARD: I was I was exposed
to it from a very early age.
So my parents were both into
the Edgar Cayce studies.
My dad knew hypnotherapy,
my mom was also
on the board of directors
for the Monroe Institute
Professional Division.
So I'd been exposed
to it, but as a child,
I was a little bit
like this, right?
>>REGINA: Well, I guess because
your parents were doing it.
>>BULLARD: [LAUGHS]
They were my parents.
>>REGINA: Your parents
are always suspect.
[LAUGHS]
>>BULLARD: Right.
I was growing up
in Orange County,
California, which is like fairly
conservative and standard,
and I wanted to fit in.
And so the kind of
being really different
was not really my cup of tea.
So I just was exposed, but
my parents fortunately,
they never really
pushed anything on us.
They let us really just
make up our own mind.
So I explored, but I never
really decided what I believe.
I kind of like, well,
I don't know the truth.
I am not going to claim this
or that because I don't know.
And so it wasn't until I
got into college, actually,
that I started to
finally be exposed
to some things that really spoke
to me, that spoke to my soul.
And the first thing
that really turned me on
was the transcendental poets
like Wordsworth, and Thoreau,
and Emerson.
And then from there, I got
into some of the Zen Buddhism.
And a little bit of Native
American shamanism, and just
started to explore.
And take little
pieces here and there
and formulate my own
personal philosophy.
But what I found
was that I'd grow
for a certain amount of
time, and I'd find answers
that I liked, but then I'd hit a
point with each of those things
that I was trying, I'd hit
a point where I was like--
it just felt like I hit a wall.
I hit that plateau.
>>REGINA: The limitation of it.
>>BULLARD: I'd go on
to the next thing.
Yeah, and I go to the next
thing and then, you know, grow
and then hit that wall.
And so I just sort of
formulated my own philosophy.
And it wasn't until I,
after graduate school,
or during graduate
school, that I just
decided I need to put my
spirituality in front,
because this is one of the
keys to my happiness and sense
of meaning and purpose.
And why am I even doing
the physics, right?
>>REGINA: Right, right, right.
Well, it's interesting,
because what you brought up
a few minutes ago, about
having your scientific training
in direct opposition to your
spiritual understanding.
What I have found so ironic
through the years, because I've
interviewed a lot of
scientists, a lot of physicists,
and so forth.
And normally, if I'm
interviewing them,
they have a very strong, very
proactive spiritual side,
which is--
yet, a lot of the
spiritual practices
are still diametrically
opposed to some
of their understandings in
the world of kind of material
science and even physics.
And I always
wondered how can you
bridge that and live
with essentially
the cognitive dissonance
of believing something here
that's totally belief based,
and then having such a staunchly
held viewpoint in the sciences?
And the scientists themselves
seem to live that conundrum.
>>BULLARD: [LAUGHS]
Some of them do.
>>REGINA: Some of them, yeah.
Well, the ones I would
be interviewing, yeah.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, yeah.
Well, so I knew like
just blind faith
wasn't going to work for
me because I had already
hit that wall as a
child, growing up
with exposure to Christianity.
And I would ask
simple questions like,
where do the dinosaurs fit in?
And I'd hit this wall where
they just couldn't go there.
And I thought,
well, if you can't
answer these simple questions
that science already knows,
I can't believe.
And yet I knew, in
my heart of hearts,
I knew that there was a
spiritual side to life.
And I had experienced it.
And I had felt it.
But I just was really hands-off
with religion I think.
But then as I got
into graduate school,
as I got into studying
some of the math
and some of the quantum physics,
and the more I actually really
explored into it, the more
to me it actually said,
well, you know this
universe is so perfect.
Like there's such fine
tuning in the universe.
And there's these
mathematical connections that
were just fascinating to me.
And to me, I thought, how
could it be otherwise?
There's got to be some
intelligence behind this.
And so I always believed that
there's a spiritual side.
And to me, the science
actually verified
it more and more and more.
But that we needed to
be more in the quantum
mindset, the quantum
way of thinking,
rather than the old
Newtonian way of thinking
that was so materialistic and
kind of clockwork universe.
But there have been times
on my spiritual path
where I really had to walk
away from some of the linear,
logical, you got to prove
it to me in tangible terms
or I won't believe
it, thinking that we
get trained as as scientists.
And had to just start
to open up my perception
and my open-mindedness of
there's possibilities here.
And I'm just going to
allow myself to believe.
And then I started to learn
to discern by the fruits,
you know.
I'm not going to say
yes or no to anything
until it proves itself to me.
But how does it
prove itself to me?
By my own changes
in my own life.
And so there was several
things that I experienced
along the way that I didn't
know if I could explain it,
I didn't understand
how it worked,
but I knew it was working.
And so as a scientist,
it's like, well,
there's my evidence.
Now my job is to figure
out how does that work?
>>REGINA: Well, science should
be more based in that anyway,
rather than trying to protect
tenure grants and so forth.
And that's the
unfortunate thing.
It's supposed to be an area
of extreme exploration.
And instead, it seems to
more narrow down than open
up a lot of times, which is sad.
>>BULLARD: It is sad.
And that's part of what
turned me off, actually,
to the science
track, ultimately.
It was like in the early days
of quantum physics revolution,
when we were shifting from
that Newtonian-- everything is
Newtonian, we're just coming
down to precision science now.
And then all of a sudden the
quantum revolution comes along.
That was about 100 years ago.
Those were explorers.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
>>BULLARD: And they were
asking the right questions.
And they were open.
And they were putting
everything on the table
to be re-evaluated.
And that was what really
drew me into physics
in the first place,
is like, this, this
is what I want to see.
And then yet, as I got
into graduate school,
it was like, we're not
doing that anymore.
We've accepted this.
This is how things are.
Now just pass your tests
and do your research.
>>REGINA: Right
>>BULLARD: And it's
very money driven.
The research that you--
>>REGINA: Jealously guarded
acquisition of evidence
for something.
>>BULLARD: And credibility.
Credibility is everything.
And if you lose your
credibility, if you research
fringe topics, you're going
to lose your credibility,
you're going to
lose your funding,
you're going to lose your job.
And it was just, to me, I
couldn't-- and there's so much.
I'm sorry, but there
was a lot of arrogance.
>>REGINA: Oh yeah.
>>BULLARD: Mental arrogance.
And that closed-mindedness
started coming in.
So I had on one
hand, I was doing
my research and my science.
And I was doing basic
physics, just really trying
to understand fundamental
principles of creation
in the universe.
And then on the other hand, I
had this spiritual side of life
that started to awaken in me
and become really important
in my life, because
it was clear to me
that it was a key of my sense
of purpose, and meaning,
and happiness.
And I was finding that my
passion and my creativity
was reawakening.
Because through the
scientific way of thinking,
my creativity was
getting stomped out.
>>REGINA: Yeah, waning, sure.
>>BULLARD: It was
all left brain and I
was I was losing access to that
right brain way of working.
And then that the
spiritual work started
bringing that right
brain connection,
and ultimately whole
brain, back online.
And so all my creativity
was coming back.
My passion was coming back.
A sense of meaning and
purpose was coming back.
And then those were the fruits.
My life started transforming
in a really good way.
And it's like, OK,
well, this is good.
Even though science can't
explain it, this is good.
>>REGINA: It feels good is
evidentiary for you, yes.
I understand that.
And you're right.
I mean, 100 years ago,
even prior to that, late
1800s, early 1900s, it was
just a circus of so many
different ideas and topics.
Understandings of
ancient knowledge
were being remembered
and bubbling up
to the surface across the globe.
And also in the 16th
century, a lot of that
was going on in the time
of Sir Francis Bacon
and so forth, the
Renaissance, absolutely.
And yet, now we're seeing
some of the most clo--
really, on one level,
in terms of science
itself discovering the great
mysteries in life-- really
some of the most closed times.
So I think you made
a very wise decision.
And it took you into some
interesting directions.
You went looking for your tribe.
And then you did a DNA Life
Activation, is that correct?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so
what happened was I
was getting really excited
by what I was learning.
And I wanted community.
I wanted to share.
I wanted people of like mind, or
my tribe, my spiritual family,
where I could feel like, let's
have these conversations,
because I couldn't do that
in the physics department.
And then I went
to certain things
like a Center for
Spiritual Living,
or Church of Religious
Science, which was great.
But it was kind of
not hitting the depth
that I was looking for.
And so I felt really isolated.
And so at one point, I just put
it out there to the universe,
like, I'm really frustrated,
help me find my spiritual path,
help me find my
spiritual family, people
that I can connect with.
And then I just
put it out there.
And then about two weeks
later, synchronicity led me
to somebody who offered this
thing called the DNA Life
Activation.
And I was interested in this
idea of awakening that DNA
potential.
>>REGINA: All that
potential, yeah.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
all that potential.
And I knew that there
was more inside of me.
I was like, OK, I'm
open, let's try it.
I'd had lots of various
energy modalities done
on me by that point.
And some of them I
thought were great.
And I'd already been Reiki
attuned to level 2 Reiki
practitioner, for
like 6 years prior.
So I was into it.
And yet, some delivered
and some didn't.
So I went, OK, let's see
what it has to offer.
And I had that session.
In the session, it
didn't necessarily
blow me away in the moment.
>>REGINA: What was it?
And what was it was supposed
to have accomplished?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so it was
about a two-hour session.
And there was all
this energy balancing.
So just balancing different
layers of the energy body,
and chakras, and
aura, and so forth.
And then there's
this activation part,
where they actually go into the
third blueprints of the body
and they turn on the light
switches that are supposed to--
related to the pineal gland--
that are supposed
to be connecting
in to the signals for the DNA,
and which parts of the DNA
to be expressing.
And it works with the Tree
of Life and Kabbalistic
understandings.
It's actually a very
ancient modality
that goes back several
thousand years,
they say, that's been passed
down through the Mystery School
traditions.
And the practitioner had
these different modalities,
and I was asking her, well,
what is this versus that?
And where does this come from?
And what's this
mystery school thing?
And I had all kinds
of questions for her.
And she didn't really have a
whole lot of answers for me
in the moment.
But afterwards, and for the
next four months, I kept seeing
these changes happen in my life.
And I just had more
clarity come through.
I had insights into choices
I was making in my life,
and what was serving me
and what wasn't serving me,
and how I might align
my life choices better
to be more supportive
of my higher potential.
And so all of a
sudden, I was making
all these little incremental
adjustments in my life,
just intuitively.
And after about a month, I
look back, I'm like, wow.
It made a lot of
little adjustments.
>>REGINA: It all started
with that day, yeah.
>>BULLARD: And it
all added up to be
a pretty big change in life.
And then about four months
later, for the first time,
I was able to say, oh, this
is what I'm here to do.
I'm here to bring the science
and the spirituality together,
which means I'm here to walk
a nontraditional track, rather
than a traditional track.
Because prior to
then, I didn't really
know what I wanted to do--
>>REGINA: Were you
receptive to that?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, it was like,
oh, my passions, two passions
coming together.
But it means that
I'm not going to it
the way they want me to do it.
And I have to be OK with
that, which is a little scary.
>>REGINA: Yeah that's
what I was wondering.
>>BULLARD: It was really scary.
And fortunately, then, I also
got into the Mystery School
teachings of Kabbalah.
And through that process-- it
was a very experiential process
of personal transformation--
and through that process, I
was able to really peel away
the layers of the fear.
And gain the courage to kind
of come out and just say,
you know what?
Hey, this is who I am,
because I was in the closet,
spiritually, as a scientist
in this community for a while.
And then I was like,
I have to come out,
because I can't be at
odds with myself anymore.
And so it was just a
lot of personal work
of like really peeling
those layers away
so that I could emerge.
And do what I was here to do.
And step off of the normal
track and pave a new way.
>>REGINA: So the Kabbalah
gave you a new framework.
>>BULLARD: A new
framework, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, let's talk
about that for a moment.
Because there are
different types
of the way the Kabbalah is
experienced, expressed, used.
And one thing you talk about
is experiential Kabbalah.
So help define this
in people's minds,
because most people, if
they do know the Kabbalah,
probably only know
one way of viewing it.
And the Tree of Life.
So go for it.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
So the community
I ultimately found my way to as
was The Modern Mystery School.
And they work more with
universal principles,
and not so much with any
one religious approach.
So they've drawn from many
different ancient spiritual
traditions.
And in The Mystery
School really has kind of
been a sponge to those
ancient spiritual traditions,
and the tools and the
methods that are used.
But bringing it together
in a non-dogmatic way,
a non-religious way,
but very spiritual.
And so the Kabbalah has been
drawn in to the mystery school
tradition, but almost like a
core framework for everything.
So everything becomes a
part of that framework
of the Tree of Life.
But it's universal,
so it's not going
to be according to any orthodox
Jewish mystical tradition,
but it definitely has links in.
But they say that Universal
Kabbalah goes all the way back
to the very beginning,
when we just
started to learn how to
ask the right questions
and receive answers that would
help us to thrive in life.
That Kabbalah ultimately
is the study of life
and how to live
life to the fullest.
And in the mystery
school tradition,
they have a system
that they call
ascending the Tree of Life.
Where we actually
energetically, step by step,
ascend vibrationally, raise
the energy of the soul
up the Tree of Life, and up
that pattern from being just
focused on the physical,
in our physical lives.
And working our
way up through each
of the 10 steps of
the tree until we
can come back to connecting
a direct connection
to the top of the tree,
which is our own divinity.
And along the way, it's
almost like your mind
is supposed to work
according to this pattern.
And yet we get stuck
in certain places,
in certain old things
that we didn't resolve.
And so along the journey,
those energies get catalyzed.
And it's like the light
gets shined on them.
And you start to see
more clearly what's
going on in you that
creates this disruption
or distortion of the energy
as it's flowing through
into your life.
And so we learned about
Kabbalah by living it.
>>REGINA: So it was
experiential Kabbalah.
>>BULLARD: That's experiential.
As we ascend, and as we use the
tools in our own life daily,
then our life
becomes our mirror.
And I mean, it's
already or mirror,
but it's like there's this
amplification of awareness,
of what your life is
trying to show you
and how it relates
to the Tree of Life.
And it's kind of
hard to explain,
but the journey
is pretty amazing.
So over 10 months, I
experienced 10 years
worth of transformation
and shifting, just
through that ascension process.
>>REGINA: Well, let's
talk about for a moment,
just a little bit,
because I know
you can't take years of
training and crush it
into a few minutes.
But maybe just give
us a little hint
of what some of the
practices, or protocols,
or tools in this process were?
>>BULLARD: So they're
very similar tools
that you might see in
a lot of practices.
So meditation is a piece of it.
There's rituals, rituals
in particular being one way
that we step into a more active
role and harness our own will.
And we use-- there's formulas.
So we would use formulas
according to the Tree
of Life pattern, for example.
Activating those energy
centers on the body,
working with something
called the Four Worlds,
which is, how do we bring the
energies from the higher divine
source of inspiration
down through the levels
of our mind and our planning
and into actual manifestation?
And how do we work with
this much more efficiently
and effectively?
And then there's
divine names that we
might tone that are
based on the Tree of Life
and the Kabbalistic system.
Yeah, so sacred word,
sacred ritual, meditation.
We also work with things like
there's the study portion
and expanding your
concepts, there's
working with your chi
and your vitality,
there's awakening
it in your DNA.
Because every time we're
working with the Tree of Life,
we're working with our DNA.
And so it's always waking up
and catalyzing these energies
within you to transform.
>>REGINA: And in that, when I
was reading about your work,
it was a type of
Kabbalah, and some
of the mysteries that you were
expanding in your own awareness
had to do-- dated back to
the days of King Solomon.
And let's talk about
that a little bit,
because anyone that went to
Sunday school would say, what?
King Solomon?
No.
So let's talk about what
that means in your world.
>>BULLARD: Sure.
So yes, so there's the biblical
stories of King Solomon.
I mean, there's the
King Solomon was wise.
And we have the story of
the two women and the baby,
and so forth.
And that then there's also
stories, other stories.
So in the mystery school
tradition, King Solomon,
there's oral teachings.
And sometimes we get very
different oral teachings
than what you might see
in the written history.
>>REGINA: Right
>>BULLARD: But written
history is written by who?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: And from what
perspectives and filter?
>>REGINA: The victors.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
usually the victors.
And there's sometimes
the propaganda
of this is the story
we want to tell,
and then there's all
the censoring of, well,
this is the other
side of the story that
gets kind of censored out.
So we work with a lot
of oral teachings.
And they say that,
OK, so it didn't
originate with King Solomon.
But King Solomon
was somebody who--
so his father, King
David, was a Warrior King.
But King Solomon was maybe
more diplomatic or more wise.
And he had, according to our
teachings, he had a vision.
And in Kabbalah, they have
like a prophecy, or a teaching,
that at one point we
were in a divine state.
We were in the Garden of Eden.
And then something happened,
and we came out of that state.
We fell to a place where we're
in a denser state of being.
And there's the veils
that got put in place.
And we're now off to try and
create by our own efforts
and so forth.
But there was always
a promise, according
to the Kabbalistic
teachings, there's
always a promise
to rediscovering
those keys to reawakening
our full divine potential.
And they call it
the Adam Kadmon,
which is like this perfected
human, this God human.
So King Solomon
had as his mission,
how do we rediscover those keys
so that we can turn this on
and we can then recreate that
heaven on earth experience?
And he knew that Kabbalah
had certain keys,
but there were other
keys that were missing.
And so there was a
gathering, a big gathering
of the tribes from all over.
And in the Bible, it
does talk, it kind of
mentions that, oh, he worshipped
pagan gods, and this and that.
But from our perspective,
it was well, no, there
was an invitation
to all these sages,
and priests, and priestesses
from all these other traditions
who came together.
And they shared their teachings,
they shared their methods,
they shared their secrets,
and they worked together
for a common mission for over
the course of 20-plus years.
And they were trying to test out
all these different modalities
and teachings to find that
what universally works.
It's not about your bloodline,
it's not about your culture,
it's not about your land,
it works on everybody.
And if it worked
on everybody, it
became a part of this system.
>>REGINA: It was wise.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, and
it kind of reminds
me of the time of Alexandria
and the Renaissance.
It was one of those
times where there
was a melding of these universal
teachings coming back together.
And so Universal Kabbalah
was one of those--
like he made Kabbalah
be the framework
that everything organized into.
You know, we take this
piece, and oh, that
relates to this
part of the tree.
And then we take
this piece and that.
And I find that the
Tree of Life really
is this organizing system.
You can take anything from life,
from physics, from psychology,
from relationships,
and you can see it--
>>REGINA: Overlay it.
>>BULLARD: --falls
into the tree of life.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And somewhere along the way, the
oral tradition of Hermeticism
came into your life.
>>BULLARD: Yeah so in
the Mystery School,
they work with Hermetic
teachings, which go back even
further than King Solomon.
They just trace the lineage
to that time of King Solomon.
We work with Ancient
Egyptian teachings,
alchemical teachings,
various shamanic practices.
So it's a very broad sweep
of the different practices.
And to me personally, the
Hermetics and the alchemy
were really like
a key for me to be
able to bridge the science
and the spirituality.
>>REGINA: Hermetics
for me, as well.
It's a beautiful bridge.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
because it's working
with those universal principles.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Yeah, it's just examining
the operating principles
behind reality, right.
And so the word alchemy,
you just brought up
and I said in the open of the
show is that a lot of people
use the word alchemy, but
what's it actually mean, right?
And if you go deep
into Hermetic studies,
it'll tell you,
literally, if you're
looking at it from
a material level
to a spiritual level,
what that means.
But you're using it in terms of
a way of helping us understand
our own human evolution and
our human spiritual evolution
as well, cultural and
spiritual evolution.
So let's move forward to
game changers and then looked
forward after that into
the seven alchemical steps.
So the kind of disillusionment
and recombining ourselves, OK?
>>BULLARD: OK, so with
alchemy, when I first
was exposed to it
as a scientist,
I thought, oh, I
don't have anything
to learn from these alchemists.
I'm a real scientist,
because we had been trained
that is just pseudoscience.
And I kept pushing it
away, but the universe just
kept bringing it up
and bringing it up.
And when I looked into
it, I realized, finally,
like, oh, this is a gold mine.
>>REGINA: Literally.
>>BULLARD: There is so much
wisdom in here, literally.
And the wisdom is
the gold, I think.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BULLARD: It's just like
it applied to everything
that I was looking
for, especially
for bridging the science
and the spirituality.
And yet, the primary
core of alchemy
is about the
transformation of the self.
And the perfection
of the our own soul
to become the
Philosopher's Stone
is, how do we really evolve and
achieve that full potential,
that full perfection?
And yet, alchemy
is so universal.
It's a way in which everything
evolves, and transforms,
and grows into
that higher energy.
And so how do we apply
this into our lives.
You can, of course,
apply it into science,
and that's where
science even came from,
is the alchemical tradition.
We can apply it into our social
transformation as a collective.
And so alchemy applies
as at many levels.
And we think of alchemy
in its core essence
as the process of
raising vibration.
But you mentioned that people
are using this term really
loosely these days.
And they are.
It's like, oh,
everything's alchemical
if it's transformative.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: In alchemy,
there is a science--
>>REGINA: It's very specific.
>>BULLARD: It's very precise.
There's formulas and there's
a very specific sequence
that you have to go through
to successfully make it
all the way through the
transformational process.
And they talk about, at
the core of that formula
is a Latin phrase called
Solve et Coagula, which means
to take apart and recombine.
But in taking apart, you need to
then take those separate pieces
and purify them.
So if we just take apart and
then we try to recombine,
without doing the purification
and the refinements,
it's not alchemy.
It just goes back into
a corrupted state.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: Right, so
that purification process
is at the core of what
happens with alchemy.
Purification and the
raising the vibration,
bringing it to its
higher potential,
then bringing things
back together.
And when we bring
it back together,
again, it's really precise.
And it takes, they say,
in "The Emerald Tablet"
that it has to be with great
skill or great ingenuity.
That we have to bring
things back together
in perfect proportion,
perfect harmony,
because we're trying to take
these oppositions, right.
I mean, you look
at our world today
and there's so much opposition.
There's so much
polarization of things.
And alchemy, though,
thrives in that tension
between differences, that
tension of opposites.
But we have to kind of separate
them out from each other,
purify them to
their core essence,
and then bring
them back together,
so that the combined
whole will be greater
than how it was previously.
>>REGINA: And as we
started the conversation,
we were talking about DNA.
And we're talking about
your DNA activation.
And now we get to this notion
that soul progression is very
intimately linked with DNA.
And let's talk
about how we begin
re-awakening, remembering,
activating, that quote,
"95% junk DNA," which
I always thought
was just hysterical
to begin with.
[LAUGHS]
>>BULLARD: So yes, it's
typical limited mindset.
>>REGINA: If you don't
understand it, it's junk.
>>BULLARD: Right.
[LAUGHS] Right.
So yeah, there's this
huge potential in our DNA
that we're just not even--
well, I think it's functional.
But we just don't understand--
scientists don't understand it.
But there's also--
>>REGINA: Well, it's
working in the background,
in the operating system.
And we're just not
aware of any of it.
>>BULLARD: Right,
we're not aware.
And so the DNA, in the
metaphysical understanding,
we relate the DNA
to the Tree of Life.
So the Tree of
Life would be like
that core original
blueprint of who we are.
And it's physical, and it's
spiritual, and there's soul,
and these are different
components of it.
And so our DNA, from the more
metaphysical perspective,
is going to contain
everything about us.
There's all of our physical,
everything about our bodies
and so forth, but there's also
everything about your soul.
And how your perceiving
and your purpose,
And what you're here to do
and the unique gifts that
your spirit brings in.
And all of these
things are written
in that blueprint of you.
And so every time that we
work with the Tree of Life
it's communicating to your
DNA, because that Tree of Life
is actually the scaffolding
or the sacred geometry that
governs the construction
of the DNA double helix.
So if you take Tree of
Life, upon Tree of Life,
upon Tree of Life, upon Tree of
Life, it builds up that ladder.
And then you just give it a
right-handed clockwise twist,
and then you have your two
strands of your double helix.
And then right down
the center core of that
is all this light that runs.
>>REGINA: So it sounds like
what hasn't been as this is
a multi-dimensional expression.
And because we're
only looking for DNA
in the material third
dimensional realm.
>>BULLARD: Chemical.
>>REGINA: You can't
see the rest of it.
>>BULLARD: Right, yeah, yeah.
So yeah, there's many
dimensions, many, many--
and also there's the--
so the sacred geometry, the core
pattern that it's built around
is actually more fundamental
than the biomolecules
that shape the DNA.
>>REGINA: Absolutely
>>BULLARD: Because it's not
just our deoxyribonucleic acid,
it's also crystals
have DNA, everything
that's physical has some kind of
DNA built around that pattern.
And so as we communicate
and work with that,
we are communicating to the
proper programming of our DNA.
And then our DNA also
responds to words
and the proper frequencies.
So as we attune
ourselves, as we are
gaining that inner frequency--
and it needs to be coherent.
So there's this light
that can go into the DNA,
and be received by the DNA,
and also expressed by the DNA,
that they call biophotons.
And it has to be coherent,
it's laser light.
And it's subtle.
But we have to achieve
a state of coherence
within in order to
communicate to our DNA.
So we can't just
come from mind, have
to come from every part of us is
in this united state of being.
And then we bring in the proper
visuals, of the Tree of Life,
for example, or the proper
words of power or holy words
that communicate to the DNA.
And that's where our chants can
come in, our meditations come
in, rituals that work with that
Kabbalistic Tree of Life, which
is, to me, it's not
just about Kabbalah.
It's a sacred geometry,
which is universal.
And any sacred
geometry, you know,
there's different ones that
will work with different aspects
of our beings.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK, what I'd like you to
do, if you wouldn't mind,
is to use the beautiful
metaphor of the chrysalis
and the butterfly, and imaginal
cells, and how, in the end,
they are going to take over.
As you started from
the beginning, saying,
this transformation
is going to happen.
Either the slow way, the
hard way, or the fast way.
So let's use that metaphor.
>>BULLARD: OK, so that
metamorphosis process
of the caterpillar to
butterfly is alchemy.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: And it's
a great example
for what we go through, right.
So as the caterpillar,
it's like there's
this clock that goes off
inside of it internally,
know the DNA starts to change.
And then it goes and
makes its chrysalis,
and it doesn't know what
it's going to become,
it's just kind of
settling down for a nap.
But inside that
chrysalis, it goes
through a complete breakdown.
And it becomes a soupy mess.
If you open up the chrysalis.
>>REGINA: Goo.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, it's total goo.
And then there is this
DNA, starts putting out
a new signal for these
new cells to be developed
that they call imaginal cells.
And the imaginal cells hold the
blueprint for the butterfly.
And there's this
kind of-- at first,
the old cells think,
oh, this is a virus.
This is the reason that
everything's falling apart
and they attack.
But then there's this
gathering in numbers
where they can gain the strength
to form that new structure
of the butterfly.
And then ultimately, as that
new structure starts to emerge,
the old cells kind of realize
like, OK, no matter what we do,
we're falling apart here.
And we need to find--
we need to repurpose ourselves
to this new structure,
otherwise we die off.
And so there's this
shift from fighting it
to repurposing and
using those old skills
to become a part of
the new butterfly.
You know, because a
digestive cell could still
be a digestive cell.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: Right, but
then in the butterfly,
there's new things like
the color, and the wings,
and so forth.
And so they have
to work together.
So the old, like the
elders, and the new,
who are the imaginal
cells of humankind,
whether they're new generations,
like millennials and indigos,
or whether they're
cultural creatives,
they need to work
together to find that,
how do we bring in
the new paradigm,
but also make it work?
And in a way that is efficient.
>>REGINA: And have some
stable basis to work from.
>>BULLARD: And have a stable
structure to work from.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: And then there's
still these processes
that it takes for the
butterfly to emerge.
>>REGINA: I love it.
It's a beautiful metaphor.
And also for society at large.
I love the fact
that you basically
use that in terms
of societal growth,
because we can see that
these new ideas that
are coming forward from
all generations now.
These new questions,
these new expectations
are gaining in
numbers to the point
where they can't
be suppressed now.
So we are going to--
>>BULLARD: All the
solutions are coming forward
>>REGINA: --transform.
>>BULLARD: We have to.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's back
it up a little further.
We're going to back the lens up.
So your understanding
is that we as souls
have gone through universal
experiences and understandings.
And here we have
now found ourselves
in our current evolutionary
pattern, right, here on Earth.
And that ultimately,
we're destined
to go back to our galactic
understandings in self.
So coming from
that point of view,
let's begin the alchemical
process, the beginning
of the tearing apart.
>>BULLARD: OK.
So, yeah, our ultimate
goal is towards our--
we are galactic beings,
and we are divine beings--
or eternal beings, right.
And so we are not
manifesting that right now.
And so in the alchemical
process-- and this
is going to naturally
happen, no matter what.
It's going to
already-- like life,
the universe is driving
this evolutionary process.
Alchemy is about
understanding that formula
so that we can work with it.
So that we can harness
those natural processes.
And then by our own creative
efforts, we can speed it up.
So when we understand them, then
we can work in participation
and speed it up.
And that's what it means
to be an alchemist.
>>REGINA: So we're going to
be dragged there, anyway.
Might as well participate
in a proper way.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, and we
can get there faster.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
Right, exactly.
>>BULLARD: We can get there
faster and hopefully smoother,
in a smoother way.
Because if you just leave
it up to nature to do,
you're going to wind up kind
of having to repeat, repeat,
repeat a lot.
And so the first step--
and a lot of people can
really probably relate
to this in their lives--
like the first step
that we go through, when
it's time for transformation,
is what we call Calcination.
It's like you get burned.
Something in your life just
gets shaken to the core.
And you feel like, you
know, like everything just
got up rooted.
Like a big earthquake
in your life.
Or your ego gets burned, right.
And this is the Calcination.
This is the burning.
>>REGINA: What about burnt out?
>>BULLARD: It can be burnout.
It can you just crash, right.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: And so
that's the point where
it's like it's a wake up call.
And it's saying you've
got to change some things.
You've got to look
at some things here,
because it's not working
how it's going right now.
And you have to progress.
And if you don't progress,
and you stagnate,
well the universe
is going to keep
trying to send you events and
experiences that are going
to catalyze that progression.
And so we go through
that burning.
And then the next stage
that usually comes up
after the burn, and
feeling like the ego
just got flared,
and so forth, is
the emotion starts to rise up.
So the next stage is what
we called Dissolution.
And so there's things
from the subconscious
that have been buried.
The impurities and things
that need to get cleaned out
start to rise up to the
surface of our awareness.
But it's a very emotional
experience at first.
You know when you're
in emotion, and it's
like you just can't think
quite clearly, right.
So you're not necessarily
going to get clarity
during this stage, but we
do feel the disillusionment,
right.
So it is a dissolution, and
things just kind of start
to dissolve in terms of what
we thought our life was.
And it was like,
this is how it was
and now it's all dissolving.
And we realize,
well, that's not--
I can't rely on that anymore.
And so with the emotional stage,
or that Dissolution stage,
we need to purify.
And we need to release
some of that stuff that
was buried in the subconscious
that was driving the pattern.
Because we can't really--
we're not going to
act in our world
if it's not in our
subconscious pattern.
It's just that's the filter.
So we have to clean
up that filter.
And then once we kind of move
through that Dissolution phase,
we get the emotion out, usually.
And then as we release
that emotional charge,
and some of this stuff
starts to stir up,
then we can move
into the next stage,
which is called Separation.
And Separation is
really just a process
of patience and clarification,
letting the mind
get more clear now.
OK, well, what's what?
What do we want to keep?
What do we need to let go of?
Where are the impurities?
We start separating out the
pieces, asking what's what.
And, OK, what parts
here are essential,
but there's impurities in
there, and to just purify it.
What do I just completely
got to get rid of?
And then we're trying
to really bring
that purification of
those essential components
into the picture.
>>REGINA: Discernment.
Truth, discerning truth.
Your truth.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, discernment.
And deeper questioning, deeper
introspection, I would say,
in terms of, well, what
really is it's true for me?
I thought this was true,
but maybe it's not true.
And what do I really want to do?
What really would you
know bring me joy or help
me have a better life, right?
And we've seen that even in
the separation of alchemy
and science and religion.
I mean, those things
separated out.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: But we
need to at some point
bring them back together now.
As science separated
out from the spiritual,
it was able to really
master all the technology.
And this certain
way of doing things.
And that has advanced
us in many ways.
But it's gotten to the point
now where it's out of balance,
right.
It's so linear, logical,
rational, material,
and there's no
spiritual guidance.
That needs that wisdom
of the spiritual side
to come back in to guide.
How are we going to
use these technologies?
And so we need to bring these
pieces back together again.
But in their core essence.
Not in their dogma, but
in their core essence.
And so that fourth stage is
the bringing back together.
So as we've purified, and as
we've clarified everything,
now we're going to bring the
pieces, those essential pieces,
back together.
And that's what we
call Conjunction.
And for us, personally, it's
where, OK, this is who I am.
This is what I'm going to do.
This is my new direction.
And we started to
feel more at ease
and more centered
in ourselves again.
And we start to have
that sense of confidence.
But it's also a connection
to the deeper self.
We start really feeling
connected more to the higher
self or more aligned.
And so this is where a lot
of people, though, get stuck.
Is they feel comfortable again
in this new conjunction stage.
And it's really beautiful.
But they go, OK, well,
I've done all this work.
And things are better now.
>>REGINA: I have a sense
of myself now, yeah.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
I'm comfortable,
I'm getting comfortable again,
things are going good again.
And then they stop the work.
They stop that
introspection, they
stop doing the clearing, and
the more subtle impurities that
need to be purified out.
And they just get comfortable.
And when they get
comfortable, what happens
is they slide back.
And they have to go through
the first four steps again.
They can't really
progress forward
until they really are
pushing at some higher level.
It's like we need that
spiritual fire to come in,
that secret fire to
come in, and keep
driving the alchemical process.
And if they're not
connecting and continuing
to bring that spiritual
fire in, then it just
sort of gets stuck.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: And then the alchemy
experiment kind of fails
and they got to
start over again.
So to move forward, we need to--
we go into the next stage
called Fermentation.
And this is really relevant
to where we're at right now.
That the Fermentation
is a maturing process.
It's like how they take grapes
and then ferment it into wine.
So it's a maturing process.
And in that, it's slow.
It's a sort of a
slow-burning process.
And it's a gentle heat that
just gradually purifies away
those more subtle impurities.
That anything that
needs to rot or die,
that isn't of the most core
essential part, has to go.
>>REGINA: And you just said,
and that's where we are now.
Now you're speaking culturally?
Are you speaking more globally
of the human civilization
at large?
What do you mean,
that's where we are now?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, when I
look at where the world is,
because we have this big
process of evolution happening
as a human race.
When I look at where
the world is right now,
you know, there's
cycles within cycles,
so I can't say this
is exactly everything.
But we are in a phase where
Fermentation is very relevant,
it feels.
The Fermentation stage is
like a dark night of the soul.
And you're having to
face the corruption,
you're having to face
the inner demons,
what's not working.
You have to see that shadow
side that can't hide anymore.
And there's this struggle
between the light
and the dark of the self.
And as a collective,
like, that is happening.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BULLARD: The shadow
doesn't hide anymore.
It's like in our faces.
>>REGINA: Right, every day.
>>BULLARD: Every day.
>>REGINA: You just
turn your cell phone on
and look at headlines.
[LAUGHS]
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] More than
ever, you know.
And yet, I think also because
of-- since the turn of the new
millennium, things
have really been--
we've been in a new cycle.
And yet, there's also the bigger
evolutionary cycle of humanity.
So that's that cycle
within the cycle.
But since the turn of
the new millennium,
things have really
been speeding up.
And so we have the internet.
And that is creating a lot
more connection and a lot more
access to information.
>>REGINA: A lot more fire.
>>BULLARD: And a lot more fire.
And a lot more, you know,
you can't hide anymore,
because this is going to be
all over the internet within 24
hours or less.
And so that is speeding
things up as well.
And so collectively, it's
like everything in our world
has changed.
I mean, you just look
back to 20 years ago
and it's like it's a
completely different world.
And technology
keeps speeding up.
And just within five years
from today, you know,
the Futurists are
all saying our world
is going to be
completely different just
in five years away.
So that's how fast and
rapidly we're transforming.
But in the Fermentation,
it's like whatever corruption
is driving that,
it's like we can't
get to those final stages.
>>REGINA: It has to go now.
>>BULLARD: So it has to go.
And yet, it can be an
uncomfortable process.
Because as we're
fighting, as some people
are fighting to hold onto the
old structure, the old system.
And then there's other people
who are coming and saying,
no, let's go for
the new paradigm.
And that struggle
that's happening there
makes this Fermentation
stage really uncomfortable.
It's like there's
pain in the process.
>>REGINA: But it seems like
it's also distilling down
to the individual level.
As the masses go through this,
so does the individual, more
than I've ever seen.
>>BULLARD: Yep, for sure.
And we're all one.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: So we're all
part of that collective.
And so whatever's happening
at the global level,
we are experiencing
individually.
And the beauty of
that is that if we
can shift it individually,
we're contributing
to the global shift.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BULLARD: And that
hundredth monkey effect,
or critical mass, that when
enough people have individually
made that shift and we've
chosen the higher vibration,
and we've done the
hard work that it takes
to purify and to refine, and
to raise up to those higher
levels, then we're
contributing to the mass
being able to shift in
a more spontaneous way.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BULLARD: Because not everybody
is going to do this work.
But there are those
who are willing to
and who are ready to.
And they're coming
forward right now.
>>REGINA: And
we're not done yet.
That was only the fifth step.
>>BULLARD: That was
only the fifth stage.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] So
far, and oh my god, yeah.
>>BULLARD: And it's the a
long dark night of the soul.
So it can take some time
to get through that stage,
because it's like everything
that doesn't serve that highest
potential has to die.
It has to go.
And it really takes a lot
of effort to root it out.
I mean, some of it's really
blaring and in your face.
And other parts of
those corruption
can actually be really subtle.
Sometimes as things there's
things that we think are good.
Like at a personal
level, sometimes there's
things we think about
ourselves, oh, this
is a good aspect of me.
This is a good part
of my personality.
And it's my strength.
But we have an attachment to it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: And in that
attachment, when we identify,
we're limiting ourselves.
And so with that Fermentation
and that death process,
we have to let go all of it.
We have to let go of
any limitation that
holds us in this humanness.
>>REGINA: And the
stories we tell ourselves
are down pat, more or less.
They've been, often,
if you look back,
if you look at the subject of
reincarnation, for example.
There are stories
we may have been
reinforcing, even for
other lifetimes, not
just in this lifetime.
And so we're familiar with it.
Our feelings are
almost disconnected.
It's now our story.
But in truth, with every
one of these processes,
it seems to me, we
would all greatly
benefit from going through
the process of feeling.
Not emotions, but genuinely
allowing our tuning
fork to reflect back how we feel
at every one of these points.
And at every decision point.
Because the information
is always right there.
But we're so cut off
from our feelings, which
are going to give us proper
guidance as we get to each
of these questions, right?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so as
we're too focused outwardly
on news, and outward
stimulation, and all of this
that's going on
outside, we're denatured
from what's going on in here.
And our body is a detector.
Our body, our nervous
system, and our senses,
and our spiritual senses that
come in through the soul,
it's always communicating to us.
And I see this in
people's journey
of ascending the
Tree of Life a lot,
because the tree also
is these major energy
centers on the body.
And it has these
correspondences where
if there's an issue in
that part of the body,
it's telling you
something that relates
to that part of the tree.
And it never fails.
>>REGINA: Well, but it
started more subtly.
Generally speaking, that feeling
was happening somewhere else.
Maybe a subtle
feeling of the heart.
A subtle, almost
feeling like an emotion,
blowing through or
passing through,
a whisper of some kind.
And it happens often enough, you
don't listen for long enough.
And it'll ultimately
settle somewhere a little
more dense, right.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so it starts at
these higher spiritual levels.
And then it works its
way into the mind.
And if we ignore it
in the mind, then it
works its way to the emotions.
If we ignore it there, it
works its way to the body.
So it's coming through these
different density layers
until it manifests.
And if it manifests
as a physical disease,
that means we've ignored
it for a long time.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
so the real game
is to catch it when
it is in these finer
whispers from the soul.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, and we have
to be tuned in enough in--
>>REGINA: And we'll talk
about that in a minute,
once we get through the
seventh and final step.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, because
our mind needs to be quiet.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BULLARD: And our heart
needs to be open, right?
We can't access that
just from the mind.
And it's definitely that feeling
of the body and the heart
being open, and tuning
into the subtleties.
And that's where I
found, as a scientist,
like we're trained to--
it's got to be tangible,
it's got to be physical.
It's got to be real.
But I've found that the bigger
truth is in the subtlety.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BULLARD: And it
takes a lot of effort
to really tune in and
trust, to trust it.
>>REGINA: It does,
because you have to--
most of us need
evidence, just like you
needed a certain amount of
evidence in your journey.
We need to see that
our perceptions
and other subtle feelings
have been correct in the past
and let us the right way.
And if you're not
paying attention
to where you have been validated
through these feelings,
you're not likely to rely
on them down the road.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
the validation part
is really important for
developing that connection
to the inner intuition.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So that was--
OK, so we have now--
the show, Fermentation,
the final purification,
now we go to Distillation.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so
the fermentation stage,
we know when it's done, when
there's no more impurities.
And we have usually a vision.
There's some kind of spiritual
vision that comes in.
And in alchemy,
they would call it
like the yellow sage
or the peacock's tail,
there's all this color.
And there's this, you
know, oh, OK, there's
a real sign of some
kind that stage is done.
And then as we go
into Distillation,
Distillation is this
process of taking it
from physical up to the subtle.
And then from the subtle
back down to the physical.
And you have to go through
lots of rounds of distilling.
And when it evaporates,
or when it rises up
to those more subtle planes,
you can absorb the influence
of the higher spiritual.
And then as we
condense, or as we
come back down to the physical,
it's like we're birthing it.
We're embodying
it into our life.
And so one way through
a lot of meditation,
for example, you raise
your consciousness up
and you receive all this
spiritual illumination.
But the next key is you
can't just be in bliss state.
You've got to bring it
down to the physical
and put it into action.
>>REGINA: Marry the
two worlds, absolutely.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, and if we don't
put into action and live it,
it's not manifested.
It's not fully realized, right.
So Distillation is this process.
And that is where we
really raise the vibration.
That as we bring spirit
or heaven to Earth,
then it raises the
vibration of the Earth.
But then we have to go up
again and bring it down again.
And go up-- and so we go
through several levels
of this process of refining and
maturing, and then perfecting.
>>REGINA: Because
a lot of people
think they've reached it once
they get to the bliss bunny
state.
We've all been there
at certain times.
And it's like, oh,
well I saw all this.
This is so amazing.
And the reality is your
life is maybe dysfunctional,
your life on Earth,
on the ground,
is not working well for you.
And so you're absolutely right.
The marriage of the two is
that beautiful opportunity
of being human.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, and that's
one of the big things
that we focus on in Kabbalah
and Western mysteries tradition
in general, I would
say, are really
about how do we live it in life?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: Right, so
we can be spiritual
and blissed out on
the mountaintop,
and living a monastic
life, and that's beautiful,
we can attain
enlightenment that way.
But does it change the world?
One person doing that
may not change the world.
So how do we bring that
enlightenment state down
into the physical
world and actually
make heaven on
Earth for everybody,
not just for the individual.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
change the corrupt systems
and institutions that
are no longer serving us.
That takes a lot of people
bringing that finer knowledge
down into this plane.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
and in some ways
it's harder to maintain that
heightened enlightenment
state in the world.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>BULLARD: Because
it drags you down.
And then you've got to go
through the purification.
And yet, I find
that when you do,
your baseline for your quality
of life raises and raises
and raises.
>>REGINA: It raises, yes.
>>BULLARD: And
this is ascension.
You know, a lot of people
talk about ascension.
Ascension means taking
the body with us
and raising it to
those higher planes.
It's not about escaping the
body, or being disembodied
and in this enlightenment
state, you've
got to be grounded in it.
>>REGINA: Well, and yet
some of the great traditions
of the world,
ancient traditions,
are really all about if you
can do this thing right you
can escape this trap,
this prison, that you're
in here on Earth.
I don't agree with that.
I'm on the same page you are.
If you've chosen to be
embodied on this planet,
what better way to
utilize your time here
than to try to bring the higher
principles into this life.
And as you say, anything
moving upward is ascension.
It's not like you're
going to suddenly
be a shimmery, fifth or
sixth-dimensional being when
you wake up one day because
the spacecraft has arrived,
and, you know, essentially
beamed us to a new level.
It's not going to
work like that.
So I like the pragmatic
aspects of what you're saying.
>>BULLARD: And I find that--
personally, I have experienced
that no matter how good I am,
there is always the next.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BULLARD: There's always
those layers deeper.
And so when we think,
"I've arrived,"
we've just stopped
our progression.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BULLARD: We've just stagnated.
>>REGINA: And that's why I don't
like the word enlightenment.
>>BULLARD: Yes.
>>REGINA: I don't care for it.
It's not in my vocabulary
because I don't believe
there is any such thing.
I believe there is a process
of going through enlightening
one's self.
But not an end point.
>>BULLARD: We have
a teaching that I
was exposed to through
the Mystery School
that I really loved, because
it really touches on this.
That if we want
to really ascend,
and this is a big part of
what we do in the Experiential
Kabbalah, is we
gather knowledge.
And then we have to
progress that knowledge
to understanding.
And you don't understand it
unless you've really lived it,
right.
So you've got to
test it, apply it,
perfect to your
own mastery of it.
And when you've really mastered
that, or really lived it,
then you understand.
But that's not enough, either.
We have to then raise
up the vibration.
And the way to raise the
vibration is to serve with it.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BULLARD: To bring
that to others as well.
And then through that service
to others, we gain wisdom.
But when you've
achieved wisdom, you've
got to realize that you
have to empty your cup,
and seek new knowledge,
and continue that process.
And we just continue, and
continue, and continue,
and that ascends.
>>REGINA: That's one
thing I've learned,
is that the greatest being, some
of the nonphysical that I've
ever had any communication
with, will say,
there is no end to this.
There's no end.
Don't be looking for that.
Only be looking for refinement.
>>BULLARD: Right.
>>REGINA: That's it.
>>BULLARD: And if
we are eternal,
and if we are these
divine gods and goddesses,
or these amazing beings,
our potential is limitless.
>>REGINA: It's limitless.
>>BULLARD: It's limitless.
>>REGINA: I mean,
that's pretty beautiful,
why do you need an
end to that, right?
[LAUGHS] Limitless potential.
OK, we have our final step.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
so our final step
is the Coagulation, at
where we crystallize,
and we bring everything into
that final perfected form.
Now for us, that would be
the perfection of the soul.
But again, that's one level.
So you know a lot of
people are very focused
on their progression
as humans on Earth.
But that's just Earth system.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
It's not your other half.
>>BULLARD: So as you go
forward, the galactic, you know,
our next evolutionary
step as a human race
is to go beyond Earth,
to become more galactic.
Or to realize we
already are galactic.
That we've already
had that connection.
And now we're just having this
sort of experience on Earth,
but we're going to go
into the next level of it,
even beyond this Earth.
And we get so caught up in
these bodies, in this density.
But this is not who we are.
This is just an
experience we're having.
And so we were evolving
to that next level
of our galactic being, that
we're one with the universe.
So not only is it the
collective of each human having
an impact on the collective,
and the collective having
an impact on the human, but we
have an impact on the universe.
And the universe
has an impact on us.
And it's that awareness of
all the inter-dimensional,
intergalactic connections.
And then beyond that
is that eternal being.
Going back into where it's
limitless and it's all one.
So the perfection state--
in alchemy, you'd go through
many rounds of the first six
steps before you really
reach that Coagulation,
that perfection.
And as we were just saying,
it's like once you arrive,
you're not done.
>>REGINA: You're not done.
>>BULLARD: Even if you arrive.
>>REGINA: It's just that
level of perfection.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
even if you arrive
at that level of
perfection, it's
like your whole being
becomes about serving
and bringing, spreading that
perfection now to others,
right.
So we hold that
state in that light.
But then our role is
to serve and to help
others to also accomplish
that, because we're all one.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BULLARD: When we realize
that we're all one,
I can't look at my
brother or sister
and see them and
in a lower state
and not want to help them up,
because your pain is my pain.
And so that's the, yeah,
those are the seven steps.
>>REGINA: Those are beautiful.
Thank you for sharing that.
I think those are very
incredibly useful for people,
to explain how we go
through this process.
Everybody loves a takeaway.
So with all of this, we've
put people through their paces
on this one, something
very, very simple
you find is universal, in
either its healing or uplifting
effect?
>>BULLARD: OK, so working
with sacred geometry
is very universal.
And you can work with
the whole Tree of Life,
like we talked about during
some of this process.
But usually, we
start with more what
we call the three primary
keys, which are the three most
basic sacred geometries,
which is triangle, square,
and circle.
So there's an activation
method that you
can do where you draw
these triangle, square,
and circle in your hands.
And part of the way
that you do it is you
go from left to right, and
up to the middle finger.
And then you come back
to the bottom left corner
and you go up.
And there's a very
specific way that you
have to draw each
sacred geometry for it
to kind of open the
door the right way.
And then for the square,
you go, again, left to right
across the bottom, and
up, and then come back
to that lower left
corner, up and across.
And then you do the
circle clockwise
and a dot in the middle.
And then you do it on the
same, on the other palm.
And this is what we call the
Shambhala codes activation.
OK, and then the key is to
bring it together at the heart.
And like really just
build that heart energy up
and expand this ball
of energy and light.
And expand, and expand,
and expand, fill your aura,
fill your space around
you, fill your whole body
with that light.
And then as you expand
it, and just really
feeling that heart
centered energy,
than the next piece is to
go and touch other people.
So if I can just touch you.
And it's just to
share the light.
And let that spread.
Because through that touch,
my biophotons and DNA touches
yours.
And there's an awakening.
There's an activation.
So this is something simple
that we can do for ourselves.
But it's also
about spreading it.
>>REGINA: And it's universal.
>>BULLARD: Very universal.
>>REGINA: And shared.
Any final thoughts in
just a few seconds?
>>BULLARD: Just that
we have to transform.
>>REGINA: We do.
>>BULLARD: Because is
changing so rapidly.
And we need to direct
it in a good way.
So, yeah.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BULLARD: It's been a pleasure.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's been
a pleasure talking with you
as well.
You feel like we're
right on the same page.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, thank you.
>>REGINA: For a deeper
understanding of Dr. Bullard's
work, you can go to
TheresaBullard.com where
you can find her
book Game Changers,
and for her Mystery
School training.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]